CommunicationGateway error codes (#1125)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: develop/api/CommunicationGatewayErrorCodes.md

|Name|Friendly Name|Code|Message|
|--- |--- |--- |--- |
|OK|Okay|0|Returned on success, not an error.|
|Canceled|Canceled|1|The operation was canceled, typically by the caller.|
|Unknown|Unknown|2|Unknown error. The API did not return enough error information to be converted into a specific error.|
|InvalidArgument|Invalid argument|3|The client specified an invalid argument. Note that this is different from FailedPrecondition. InvalidArgument indicates arguments that are problematic regardless of the system state.|
|DeadlineExceeded|Deadline exceeded|4|The deadline expired before the operation could complete. Note that this error may be returned even if the operation has completed successfully. E.g. a successful response could have been delayed long.|
|NotFound|Not found|5|Requested entity (e.g. file) was not found.|
|AlreadyExists|Already exists|6|Attempted to create an entity (e.g. file) that already exists.|
|PermissionDenied|Permission denied|7|The caller does not have permission to execute the specified operation.|

> |ResourceExhausted|Resources exhausted|8|Some resource has been exhausted, perhaps a per-user quota, or perhaps the entire file system is out of space.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|ResourceExhausted|Resources exhausted|8|Some resource has been exhausted. This could be a per-user quota, or the entire file system could be out of space.|
```

|FailedPrecondition|Failed precondition|9|The operation was rejected because the system is not in a state required for the operation's execution. E.g. the directory to be deleted is non-empty, an rmdir operation is applied to a non-directory, etc.|

> |Aborted|Aborted|10|The operation was aborted, typically due to a concurrency issue such as a sequencer check failure or transaction abort.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Aborted|Aborted|10|The operation was aborted, typically because of a concurrency issue such as a sequencer check failure or transaction abort.|
```

> |OutOfRange|Out of range|11|The operation was attempted past the valid range. E.g. seeking or reading past end-of-file.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|OutOfRange|Out of range|11|The operation was attempted past the valid range. E.g. seeking or reading past end of file.|
```

|Unimplemented|Unimplemented|12|The operation is not implemented or is not supported/enabled in this service.|
|Internal|Internal|13|Reserved for serious errors. This means that some invariants expected by the underlying system have been broken.|
|Unavailable|Unavailable|14|The service is currently unavailable. This can most likely be corrected by retrying after waiting a little bit.|
|DataLoss|Data loss|15|Unrecoverable data loss or corruption.|
|Unauthenticated|Unauthenticated|16|The request does not have valid authentication credentials for the operation.|

## Channel management handler error codes

These are the error codes that can be returned when creating/connecting or disconnecting a gNMI handler in the CommunicationGateway.

|Name|Friendly Name|Code|Message|
|--- |--- |--- |--- |
|ChannelManagementHandler_ConnectRequest_InvalidChannelInstance|Channel management ConnectRequest has invalid instance GUID|1001001|The ConnectRequest did not provide a usable channel instance GUID, which is needed as a message broker subject token. This should be a hex-string GUID without separators.|

> |ChannelManagementHandler_ConnectRequest_CreateChannelFailed|Channel management ConnectRequest's CreateChannel failed|1001002|The ConnectRequest failed to create a channel. Check the CommunicationGateway logging for more detailed error information. There's likely a problem with the provided channel configuration.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|ChannelManagementHandler_ConnectRequest_CreateChannelFailed|Channel management ConnectRequest's CreateChannel failed|1001002|The ConnectRequest failed to create a channel. Check the CommunicationGateway logging for more detailed error information. There is likely a problem with the provided channel configuration.|
```

|ChannelManagementHandler_DisconnectRequest_FailedToComplete|Channel management DisconnectRequest failed to complete|1001004|The DisconnectRequest failed to complete when releasing the channel and cleaning up resources. Check the CommunicationGateway logging for more detailed error information.|
|ChannelManagementHandler_ConnectRequest_InvalidMessage|Channel management invalid ConnectRequest|1001005|The ConnectRequest could not be parsed. This topic should send a Request message containing a ConnectRequest.|
|ChannelManagementHandler_DisconnectRequest_InvalidMessage|Channel management invalid DisconnectRequest|1001006|The DisconnectRequest could not be parsed. This topic should send a Request message containing a DisconnectRequest.|
|ChannelManagementHandler_ConnectRequest_AlreadyRegistered|Channel management already registered|1001007|The ConnectRequest did not create a new channel since it has already been registered.|

## gNMI handler error codes

These are the error codes that can be returned when asking the gNMI handler in the CommunicationGateway to send something to the gRPC service.

|Name|Friendly Name|Code|Message|
|--- |--- |--- |--- |

> |GnmiHandler_SubscribeRequest_MissingSubscriptionName|gNMI handler SubscribeRequest is missing subscription name|1002001|The SubscribeRequest did not find a token in the request subject that it could use to identify the subscription with. Make sure the subject is properly formatted. The token after the SubscribeRequestCommandToken shouldn't be an empty nor a whitespace string.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|GnmiHandler_SubscribeRequest_MissingSubscriptionName|gNMI handler SubscribeRequest is missing subscription name|1002001|The SubscribeRequest did not find a token in the request subject that it could use to identify the subscription with. Make sure the subject is properly formatted. The token after the SubscribeRequestCommandToken should not be an empty nor a whitespace string.|
```

|GnmiHandler_SetRequest_InvalidMessage|gNMI handler invalid SetRequest|1002008|The SetRequest could not be parsed, this topic should send a Request message containing a SetRequest.|
|GnmiHandler_SetRequest_UnexpectedFail|gNMI handler Set failed without status code|1002009|The SetAsync call threw an exception from which an error code could not be extracted. Check the CommunicationGateway logging for more information.|
|GnmiHandler_CapabilityRequest_InvalidMessage|gNMI handler invalid CapabilityRequest|1002010|The SetRequest could not be parsed, this topic should send a Request message containing a CapabilityRequest.|
|GnmiHandler_CapabilityRequest_UnexpectedFail|gNMI handler Capabilities failed without status code|1002011|The CapabilitiesAsync call threw an exception from which an error code could not be extracted. Check the CommunicationGateway logging for more information.|
|GnmiHandler_RegisterSubscriptionRequest_InvalidMessage     |gNMI handler invalid RegisterSubscriptionRequest|1002012|The RegisterSubscriptionRequest could not be parsed, this topic should send a Request message containing a RegisterSubscriptionRequest.|

> |GnmiHandler_RegisterSubscriptionRequest_TryAddFailed|gNMI handler Register subscription TryAdd failed|1002013|The RegisterSubscriptionRequest contained a SubscriptionId that could not be added after checking for duplicate IDs. This can happen when sending the same request in parallel.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|GnmiHandler_RegisterSubscriptionRequest_TryAddFailed|gNMI handler Register subscription TryAdd failed|1002013|The RegisterSubscriptionRequest contained a SubscriptionId that could not be added after checking for duplicate IDs. This can happen when the same request is sent in parallel.|
```

> |GnmiHandler_UnregisterSubscriptionRequest_InvalidMessage|gNMI handler invalid UnregisterSubscriptionRequest|1002014|The UnregisterSubscriptionRequest could not be parsed, this topic should send a Request message containing a GetRequest.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|GnmiHandler_UnregisterSubscriptionRequest_InvalidMessage|gNMI handler invalid UnregisterSubscriptionRequest|1002014|The UnregisterSubscriptionRequest could not be parsed. This topic should send a Request message containing a GetRequest.|
```

> |GnmiHandler_SubscriptionRequest_InvalidMessage|gNMI handler invalid SubscriptionRequest|1002015|The SubscriptionRequest could not be parsed, this topic should send a Request message containing a SubscriptionRequest.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|GnmiHandler_SubscriptionRequest_InvalidMessage|gNMI handler invalid SubscriptionRequest|1002015|The SubscriptionRequest could not be parsed. This topic should send a Request message containing a SubscriptionRequest.|
```

|GnmiHandler_RegisterSubscriptionRequest_MissingSubscriptionId|gNMI handler Register subscription did not receive a subscription ID|1002016|The RegisterSubscriptionRequest contained a SubscriptionId that was null or empty.|

## gNMI client error codes

These are the error codes that can be returned from the OpenConfig Library middleware that is communicating with the CommunicationGateway.

|Name|Friendly Name|Code|Message|
|--- |--- |--- |--- |
|GnmiClient_RegisterSubscriptionRequest_UnexpectedFail|gNMI client RegisterSubscriptionRequest failed|1003001|The RegisterSubscriptionRequest returned a null, the registration failed, or the channel was closed.|
|GnmiClient_SubscribeRequest_UnexpectedFail|gNMI client SubscribeRequest failed|1003002|The SubscribeRequest returned a null, the registration failed, or the channel was closed.|

> |GnmiClient_ConnectRequest_Timeout|gNMI client ConnectRequest timed out|1003003|The ConnectRequest timed out. There was no response received from the CommunicationGateway.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|GnmiClient_ConnectRequest_Timeout|gNMI client ConnectRequest timed out|1003003|The ConnectRequest timed out. No response was received from the CommunicationGateway.|
```

|GnmiClient_ConnectRequest_NullResponse|gNMI client ConnectRequest returned a null response|1003004|The ConnectRequest returned a null response.|

> |GnmiClient_ConnectRequest_NullParsing|gNMI client ConnectRequest returned a response that could not be parsed|1003005|The ConnectRequest returned a response, and when parsing that, it resulted in a null.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|GnmiClient_ConnectRequest_NullParsing|gNMI client ConnectRequest returned a response that could not be parsed|1003005|The ConnectRequest returned a response, and when that was parsed, it resulted in a null.|
```
